.TH CLIPX 1 "December 2024" "ClipX 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
clipx \- cross-platform clipboard manager with history
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B clipx
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B clipx
.BR \-h | \-\-help
.br
.B clipx
.BR \-v | \-\-version
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B clipx
is a cross-platform clipboard manager that provides clipboard history management
with persistent storage. It allows you to copy text to the clipboard, paste from
the clipboard, view your clipboard history, and restore previous clipboard entries.
.PP
ClipX stores clipboard history in a platform-appropriate location and maintains
up to 25 entries by default, automatically removing the oldest entries when the
limit is reached (round-robin).
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B copy
Copy text from standard input to the clipboard.
See
.BR clipx-copy (1)
for details.
.TP
.B paste
Paste text from the clipboard to standard output.
See
.BR clipx-paste (1)
for details.
.TP
.B history
View clipboard history entries.
See
.BR clipx-history (1)
for details.
.TP
.B restore
Restore a previous clipboard entry to the clipboard.
See
.BR clipx-restore (1)
for details.
.TP
.B clear
Clear clipboard history.
See
.BR clipx-clear (1)
for details.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Copy text to clipboard:
.nf
echo "Hello, World!" | clipx copy
cat file.txt | clipx copy
.fi
.TP
Paste from clipboard:
.nf
clipx paste
clipx paste > output.txt
.fi
.TP
View clipboard history:
.nf
clipx history
clipx history --limit 5
.fi
.TP
Restore from history:
.nf
clipx restore 1
clipx restore a3f8b2c4
.fi
.TP
Clear history:
.nf
clipx clear --all
clipx clear --before 2024-12-01
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/clipx/clipboard-history.jsonl
Clipboard history storage (Linux)
.TP
.I ~/.config/clipx/config.json
Configuration file (Linux)
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application Support/ClipX/
Data and configuration directory (macOS)
.TP
.I %LOCALAPPDATA%\\ClipX\\
Data and configuration directory (Windows)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B clipx
respects the following environment variables on Linux:
.TP
.B XDG_DATA_HOME
Override default data directory (~/.local/share)
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Override default config directory (~/.config)
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Failure (e.g., empty clipboard, invalid arguments)
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.SS Linux
Requires either
.B xclip
(for X11) or
.B wl-clipboard
(for Wayland):
.PP
.nf
sudo apt install xclip          # Debian/Ubuntu (X11)
sudo apt install wl-clipboard   # Debian/Ubuntu (Wayland)
sudo dnf install xclip          # Fedora (X11)
sudo dnf install wl-clipboard   # Fedora (Wayland)
.fi
.SS macOS
Uses built-in
.B pbcopy
and
.BR pbpaste .
No additional dependencies required.
.SS Windows
Uses Windows clipboard API via .NET.
No additional dependencies required.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR clipx-copy (1),
.BR clipx-paste (1),
.BR clipx-history (1),
.BR clipx-restore (1),
.BR clipx-clear (1)
.PP
Online documentation:
.UR https://github.com/rajware/clipx
.UE
.SH AUTHOR
Rajware Services Pvt. Ltd.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2024 Rajware Services Pvt. Ltd.
.br
Licensed under the MIT License.
